\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename simplejmx.info
@settitle SimpleJMX Documentation
@headings double
@c %**end of header

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@set simplejmx_version 1.12
@set simplejmx_year 2014
@set simplejmx_date September @value{simplejmx_year}
@set package SimpleJMX
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------

@titlepage
@headings off
@title SimpleJMX Package
@subtitle Version @value{simplejmx_version}
@subtitle @value{simplejmx_date}
@author Gray Watson

@page
This manual is licensed by Gray Watson under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual provided this license
notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.
@end titlepage

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------

@c In the printed manual, we put the contents at the front.  For the digital manuals it is at the end. 
@iftex
@contents
@end iftex

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Top, Quick Start, (dir), (dir)
@top SimpleJMX
@everyheading @thischapter @| @thispage @| @today{}

Version @value{simplejmx_version} -- @value{simplejmx_date}

@cindex introduction
@cindex author
@cindex simple jmx
@cindex jconsole
This package provides classes that simplify the publishing of objects using Java's Management Extensions (JMX). These
published objects can be investigated with jconsole or another JMX client.  Included is also a programmatic JMX client
which you can use to connect to and interrogate remote JMX servers as well as a web/HTTP interface so you can publish
JMX beans to a browser or other web client.

To get started quickly using SimpleJMX, @pxref{Quick Start}.  You can also take a look at the  the examples section of the
document which has various working code packages. @xref{Examples}.
@ifhtml
There is also a @uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/docs/simplejmx.pdf, PDF version of this documentation}.
@end ifhtml
@iftex
There is also a @uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/docs/simplejmx.html, HTML version of this documentation}.
@end iftex

Gray Watson @uref{http://256.com/gray/}

@menu
* Quick Start::                Start using SimpleJMX quickly.
* Using::                      How to use SimpleJMX.
* Examples::                   Usage examples to help you get started.
* License::                    Open Source license for the project.
* Index of Concepts::          Index of concepts in the manual.
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Quick Start, Using, Top, Top
@chapter Start Using Quickly

@cindex getting started
@cindex how to get started
@cindex quick start
To use SimpleJMX you need to do the following steps.  For more information, @pxref{Using}.

@enumerate

@item Download SimpleJMX from the @uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/releases/, SimpleJMX release page}.  @xref{Downloading}.

@item Add @code{@@JmxResource} annotation to the top of each class you want to publish via JMX.  @xref{Naming Objects}.

@example
@@JmxResource(domainName = "your.domain", description = "Runtime counter")
public class RuntimeCounter @{
@end example

@item Add @code{@@JmxAttributeField} annotation to each of the attribute fields that you want to expose via reflection over JMX.
@xref{Expose Items}.

@example
@@JmxAttributeField(description = "Start time in millis",
   isWritable = true)
private long startTimeMillis;
@end example

If you want to annotate the get/set/is attribute methods instead then use the @code{@@JmxAttributeMethod} annotation on those
methods.  @xref{JmxAttributeMethod Annotation}.

@example
@@JmxAttributeMethod(description = "Run time in seconds or milliseconds")
public long getRunTime() @{
@end example

@item Add @code{@@JmxOperation} annotation to each of operation methods that you want to make accessable over JMX.
@xref{JmxOperation Annotation}.

@example
@@JmxOperation(description = "clear the cache")
public void clearCache() @{
@end example

@item Start your JMX server. @xref{Start Server}.

@example
// create a new JMX server listening on a port
JmxServer jmxServer = new JmxServer(8000);
jmxServer.start();
@end example

@item Register the objects you want to publish via JMX.  @xref{Register Objects}.

@example
jmxServer.register(someObject);
jmxServer.register(someOtherObject);
@end example

@end enumerate

For more extensive instructions, @pxref{Using}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Using, Downloading, Quick Start, Top
@chapter Using SimpleJMX

@cindex how to use
@cindex using SimpleJMX
@menu
* Downloading ::                Downloading the SimpleJMX jar.
* Naming Objects ::             How to name the objects.
* Expose Items ::               How to expose fields and methods.
* Start Server ::               Starting a JMX server.
* Register Objects ::           Registering objects for publishing.
* Programmatic Publishing ::    How to define the name and exposed items programmatically.
* Using Client ::               Using the programmatic JMX client.
* Using With Spring ::          Using SimpleJMX with the Spring framework.
* Exposing via HTTP ::          Using the internal web server to expose JMX beans.
* Using JVM JMX Server ::       Using the JVM platform JMX server.
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Downloading, Naming Objects, Using, Using
@section Downloading Jar

@cindex how to download the jars
@cindex downloading the jars
@cindex where to get new jars
To get started with SimpleJMX, you will need to download the jar file.  The @uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/releases/, SimpleJMX
release page} is the default repository but the jars are also available from the @uref{http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/j256/simplejmx/,
central maven repository} and from @uref{http://sourceforge.net/projects/simplejmx/files/, Sourceforge}.

The code works with Java 5 or later.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Naming Objects, JmxResource Annotation, Downloading, Using
@section Naming Objects

@cindex naming objects
When you publish an object you need to tell JMX what the object's @emph{unique} name is and where it should be located in the various
folders shown by jconsole.  There are a couple of different ways to do this with SimpleJMX:

@menu
* JmxResource Annotation ::        Using the SimpleJMX @@JmxResource Annotation
* Self Naming ::                   Allow the object to name itself
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node JmxResource Annotation, Self Naming, Naming Objects, Naming Objects
@subsection @@JmxResource Annotation

@cindex JmxResource annotation
@cindex @@JmxResource annotation
The @code{@@JmxResource} annotation is used to define that the resource is to be published via JMX and how it is to be named.

@example
@@JmxResource(domainName = "your.domain", description = "Runtime counter")
public class RuntimeCounter @{
   ...
@end example

The above example shows that the @code{RunetimeCounter} object is to be published via JMX inside of the @code{your.domain}
folder with a text description.

The fields in @code{@@JmxResource} are:

@table @code

@cindex object domain name
@item domainName

Domain name of the object which turns into the top-level folder inside of jconsole.  This must be specified unless the
object is self-naming.  @xref{Self Naming}.

@cindex object name
@item beanName

Name of the JMX object in the jconsole folder.  The default is to use the class name.

@cindex jconsole folders
@cindex folders in jconsole
@cindex directories in jconsole
@item folderNames

Optional array of strings which translate into sub-folders below the domain-name folder. Default is for
the object to show up in the domain-name folder.  The folder names can either be in @code{name=value} format in which case
they should be in alphabetic order by name. They can also just be in @code{value} format.

Folders are used when you have a large number of JMX objects being published and you want to group the objects so that
you can find them faster than scrolling through a large list.  For example, all of your database objects
could go in the folder "database" while the database connections could go into the sub-folder "database/connections".

@example
@@JmxResource(domainName = "your.domain",
    folderNames = @{ "database", "connections" @})
public class MySqlDatabaseConnection @{
@end example

@cindex object description
@cindex description of object
@item description

Textual description of the class for jconsole or other JMX clients. Default is something like: "Information about class-name".

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Self Naming, Expose Items, JmxResource Annotation, Naming Objects
@subsection Self Naming Objects

@cindex self naming objects
Instead of using the @code{@@JmxResource} annotation to define the name/folders for your JMX object, you can have the
object implement the @code{JmxSelfNaming} interface.  This allows the object to name itself and will override any settings
from the @code{@@JmxResource} annotation, if it is specified.

@cindex multiple objects
@cindex dynamic objects
@cindex objects with same name
It is particularly necessary to make your object @code{JmxSelfNaming} if there are to be multiple of them published via JMX.
For example, if you have multiple database connections that you want to publish then to ensure that they have a @emph{unique} name,
each of the objects should be self-naming and should provide a unique name that identifies itself: 

@example
// we only use this to set the domain name and the folders
@@JmxResource(domainName = "your.domain",
   folderNames = @{ "database", "connections" @})
public class DatabaseConnection extends BaseJmxSelfNaming
      implements JmxSelfNaming @{
   @@Override
   public String getJmxBeanName() @{
      // return our toString as our name
      return toString();
   @}
@}
@end example

In the above example, we extend the @code{BaseJmxSelfNaming} abstract class which has default implementations for all of the
@code{JmxSelfNaming} methods, so all we need to do is override what we want to change.

The methods in the @code{JmxSelfNaming} interface are:

@table @code

@item String getJmxDomainName();

Return the domain name of the object. Return null to use the one from the @code{@@JmxResource} annotation instead.

@item String getJmxBeanName();

Return the name of the object. Return null to use the one from the @code{@@JmxResource} annotation instead.

@item JmxFolderName[] getJmxFolderNames();

Return the appropriate array of folder names used to built the associated object name. Return null for no
folders in which case the bean will be at the top of the hierarchy in jconsole without any sub-folders.

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Expose Items, JmxAttributeField Annotation, Self Naming, Using
@section Exposing Fields and Methods

@cindex notifications, not supported
Once we have named our object, we need to tell the JMX server which fields and methods should be exposed to the outside world.  JMX can expose
what it calls attributes, operations, and notifications.  At this time, only attributes and operations are supported by SimpleJmx.

Attributes can be primitives or simple types such as @code{String} or @code{java.util.Date}.  With SimpleJMX you can expose them by using reflection
on the object's fields directly using the @code{@@JmxAttributeField} annotation or instead via the get/set/is methods using the
@code{@@JmxAttributeMethod} annotation.

Operations are methods that do @emph{not} start with get/set/is but which perform some function (ex: @code{resetTimer()},
@code{clearCache()}, etc.).  They can be exposed with the @code{@@JmxOperation} annotation.

@menu
* JmxAttributeField Annotation ::        Using the SimpleJMX @@JmxAttributeField Annotation
* JmxAttributeMethod Annotation ::       Using the SimpleJMX @@JmxAttributeMethod Annotation
* JmxOperation Annotation ::             Using the SimpleJMX @@JmxOperation Annotation
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node JmxAttributeField Annotation, JmxAttributeMethod Annotation, Expose Items, Expose Items
@subsection @@JmxAttributeField Annotation

@cindex exposing fields
@cindex publishing fields
@cindex @@JmxAttributeField annotation
@cindex JmxAttributeField annotation
@cindex attributes

SimpleJMX allows you to publish your primitive or simple types by annotating your fields with the @code{@@JmxAttributeField}
annotation.

@example
@@JmxAttributeField(description = "Start time in millis",
   isWritable = true)
private long startTimeMillis;
@end example

@cindex writable attributes
In the above example, the @code{startTimeMillis} long field will be visible via JMX.  It will show its value which can be
changed because @code{isWriable} is set to true.  @code{isReadable} is set to true by default.  The description is available
in jconsole when you hover over the attribute.

The fields in the @code{@@JmxAttributeField} annotation are:

@table @code

@item String description

Description of the attribute for jconsole. Default is something like: "someField attribute".

@item boolean isReadible

@cindex read-only attributes
Set to false if the field should not be read through JMX. Default is true.

@item boolean isWritable

Set to true if the field can be written by JMX. Default is false.

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node JmxAttributeMethod Annotation, JmxOperation Annotation, JmxAttributeField Annotation, Expose Items
@subsection @@JmxAttributeMethod Annotation

@cindex exposing get/set/is methods
@cindex get methods
@cindex set methods
@cindex is methods
@cindex publishing get/set/is methods
@cindex @@JmxAttributeMethod annotation
@cindex JmxAttributeMethod annotation
@cindex attributes

Instead of publishing the fields directly, SimpleJMX also allows you to publish your attributes by decorating the
get/set/is methods using the @code{@@JmxAttributeMethod} annotation.  This is @emph{only} for methods that start
with @code{getXxx()}, @code{setXxx(...)}, or @code{isXxx()}.

The @code{Xxx} name should match precisely to line up the get and set JMX features. For example, if you are getting and setting the
@code{fooBar} field then it should be @code{getFooBar()} and @code{setFooBar(...)}.  @code{isFooBar()} is also allowed if @code{foobar}
is a @code{boolean} or @code{Boolean} field.

Notice that although the field-name is @code{fooBar} with a lowercase 'f', the method name camel-cases it and turns
it into @code{getFooBar()} with a capital 'F'.  In addition, the @code{getXxx()} method must not return void and must have no arguments.
The @code{setXxx(...)} method must return @code{void} and must take a single argument.  The @code{isXxx()} method is allowed if it
returns boolean or Boolean and the method has no arguments.

Exposing a get method allows you to do some data conversion when the value is published.  Exposing a set method allows you
to do data validation.

@example
@@JmxAttributeMethod(description = "Run time in seconds or milliseconds")
public long getRunTime() @{
@end example

The only field in the @code{@@JmxAttributeMethod} annotation is the description.  The annotation on the @code{get...} method shows that it
is readable and the annotation on the @code{set...} method shows that it is writable.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node JmxOperation Annotation, Start Server, JmxAttributeMethod Annotation, Expose Items
@subsection @@JmxOperation Annotation

@cindex exposing methods
@cindex publishing methods
@cindex methods, publishing
@cindex operations
@cindex @@JmxOperation annotation
@cindex JmxOperation annotation

Operations are methods that do @emph{not} start with get/set/is but which perform some function.  They can be exposed with the
@code{@@JmxOperation} annotation.  The method can either return @code{void} or an object. It is recommended that the method return
a primitive or a simple object that is in Jconsole's classpath already.  Otherwise Jconsole will be unable to display it.
It also should not throw an unknown @code{Exception} class.

@example
@@JmxOperation(description = "clear the cache")
public void clearCache() @{
   ...
@end example

A pattern that is common is to return a @code{String} from the method to provide some feedback to the remote user and to catch
and return any exceptions as a @code{String}.

@example
@@JmxOperation(description = "clear the cache")
public void clearCache() @{
   try @{
      // do the cache clearing here
      return "Cache cleared";
   @} catch (Exception e) @{
      return "Threw exception: " + e;
   @}
@}
@end example

The fields in the @code{@@JmxOperation} annotation are:

@table @code

@item String description

Description of the attribute for jconsole. Default is something like "someMethod operation".

@item String[] parameterNames

Optional array of strings which gives the name of each of the method parameters.  The array should be the
same length as the @code{parameterDescriptions} array. Default is something like "p0".

@example
@@JmxOperation(parameterNames = @{ "minValue", "maxValue" @},
   parameterDescriptions = @{ "low water mark",
      "high water mark" @})
public void resetMaxMin(int minValue, int maxValue) @{
   ...
@end example

@item String[] parameterDescriptions

Optional array of strings which describes each of the method parameters. The array should be the same
length as the @code{parameterNames} array.

@item OperationAction operationAction

This optional field is used by the JMX system to describe what sort of work is being done in this operation.

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Start Server, Register Objects, JmxOperation Annotation, Using
@section Starting a JMX Server

@cindex start a JMX server
@cindex JmxServer
The @code{JmxServer} class proves a server that jconsole and other JMX clients can connect to.  The easiest way to do this is
to choose a port to use, define the server, and then start it:

@example
// create a new JMX server listening on a port
JmxServer jmxServer = new JmxServer(8000);
// start our server
jmxServer.start();
@end example

@cindex MBeanServer
@cindex platform MBeanServer
@cindex using platform MBeanServer
@cindex ManagementFactory
Instead of starting your own server, you can have the @code{JmxServer} make use of the @code{MBeanServer} that was started
by the JVM platform.  It gets the server from a call to @code{ManagementFactory.getPlatformMBeanServer()}.

@example
// define a server that makes use of the platform MBeanServer 
JmxServer jmxServer = new JmxServer(true);
@end example

Before your program exits, it is best to stop the server, so the following try/finally block is a good pattern to use:

@example
// create a new JMX server listening on a port
JmxServer jmxServer = new JmxServer(8000);
try @{
   // start our server
   jmxServer.start();
   ...
   // register objects with the server and do other stuff here
   ...
@} finally @{
   // un-register objects
   // stop our server
   jmxServer.stop();
@}
@end example

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Register Objects, Programmatic Publishing, Start Server, Using
@section Register Objects

@cindex register objects
@cindex publish objects
To published objects via the server via JMX you must register them with the @code{JmxServer}:

@example
jmxServer.register(someObject);
@end example

@cindex deregister objects
@cindex remove objects
@cindex unpublish objects
There also is an @code{unregister(...)} method which will un-publish from the server:

@example
jmxServer.unregister(someObject);
@end example

The objects that are registered must be named and the fields and methods that are to be exposed must be specified.

@cindex dynamic objects
@cindex transient objects
@cindex register transient objects
@cindex publish transient objects
The @code{register(...)} and @code{unregister(...)} methods allow you to publish JMX information about dynamic objects
that get created and destroyed at runtime.  For example, if you want to see details about an attached client connection,
you could do something like the following:

@example
// accept a connection
Socket socket = serverSocet.accept();
ClientHandler handler = null;
try @{
   // create our handler
   handler = new ClientHandler(socket);
   // register it via jmx
   jmxServer.register(handler);
   // handle the connection
   handler.handle();
@} finally @{
   socket.close();
   if (handler != null) @{
      // unregister it from JMX
      jmxServer.unregister(handler);
   @}
@}
@end example

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Programmatic Publishing, Using Client, Register Objects, Using
@section Publishing Using Code Definitions

@cindex programmatic publishing
Sometimes, you want to expose a class using JMX but you don't control the source code or maybe you don't want to put the SimpleJMX
annotations everywhere.  If this is the case then you also have the option to expose just about any object programmatically.

The @code{JmxServer} has a register function which takes just an @code{Object}, an @code{ObjectName} which can be generated with
the use of the @code{ObjectNameUtil} class, and an array of attribute-fields, attribute-methods, and operations.

The object-name can also be defined using the @code{JmxResourceInfo} object that defines the fields in the @code{@@JmxResource}
programmatically.

@example
JmxResourceInfo resourceInfo =
   new JmxResourceInfo("your.domain", "beanName",
      new String[] @{ "database", "connections" @},
      "your resource desription"),
@end example   

The attribute-fields are specified as an array of @code{JmxAttributeFieldInfo} objects that are associated with fields that are
exposed through reflection:

@example
JmxAttributeFieldInfo[] attributeFieldInfos =
   new JmxAttributeFieldInfo[] @{
     new JmxAttributeFieldInfo("startMillis", true /* readable */,
        false /* not writable */, "When our timer started"),
   @};
@end example   

The attribute-methods are specified as an array of @code{JmxAttributeMethodInfo} objects that are associated with fields that are
exposed through get/set/is methods:

@example
JmxAttributeMethodInfo[] attributeMethodInfos =
   new JmxAttributeMethodInfo[] @{
      new JmxAttributeMethodInfo("getRunTime",
         "Run time in seconds or milliseconds"),
   @};
@end example

The operations are specified as an array of @code{JmxOperationInfo} objects that are associated with operation methods:

@example   
JmxOperationInfo[] operationInfos =
   new JmxOperationInfo[] @{
      new JmxOperationInfo("restartTimer", null /* no params */,
         null  /* no params */, OperationAction.UNKNOWN,
         "Restart the timer"),
   @};
@end example

To register the object you would then do:

@example
jmxServer.register(someObject,
   ObjectNameUtil.makeObjectName("your.domain", "SomeObject"),
   attributeFieldInfos, attributeMethodInfos, operationInfos);
@end example

For more information, take a look at the random-object example program.  @xref{random object example}.

@cindex publish all public
@cindex all public info
@cindex public fields, methods
@cindex PublishAllBeanWrapper
You can also use the @code{PublishAllBeanWrapper} which exposes all public fields and methods as attributes or operations.
All public fields will be exposed as an attribute and if not-final will be exposed as writable.  All public methods that
start with @code{is} or @code{get} will be exposed as attributes and if they have a @code{set} method will be writable.
All other public methods will be exposed as operations. 

Take a look at the publish-all example program to see working code that uses this class.  @xref{publish all example}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Using Client, Using With Spring, Programmatic Publishing, Using
@section Using the JMX Client

@cindex jmx client
@cindex client, JMX
SimpleJMX also includes a programmatic, simple JMX client which you can use to interrogate JMX servers.  You
connect to the server by specifying the host and port.

@example
JmxClient client = new JmxClient("server1", 8000);
@end example

To get a list of the available beans use the 

@example
Set<ObjectName> beanNames = jmxClient.getBeanNames();
@end example

Then you can get the attributes and operations associated with an @code{ObjectName}: 

@example
MBeanAttributeInfo[] attributeInfos =
   jmxClient.getAttributesInfo(objectName);
MBeanOperationInfo[] operationInfos =
   jmxClient.getOperationsInfo(objectName);
@end example

You can then get an attribute from the info or invoke an operation:

@example
boolean showSeconds =
    jmxClient.getAttribute(objectName, attributeInfo.getName());
client.invokeOperation(objectName, operationInfo.getName());
@end example

You can also get attributes by strings instead of @code{ObjectName}s:

@example
boolean showSeconds =
   jmxClient.getAttribute("your.domain", "RuntimeCounter",
      "showSeconds");
@end example

@cindex jconsole
If you need to construct the object name directly then you can use @code{ObjectName} static methods.  This is
particularly useful if you use Jconsole to find a bean that you want to operate on via the @code{JmxClient}.  Just
copy the @code{ObjectName} field associaed to a bean from Jconsole and then do something like the following:  

@example
int availableProcessors = 
   client.getAttribute(
      ObjectName.getInstance("java.lang:type=OperatingSystem"),
      "AvailableProcessors");
@end example

You can also call operations with string arguments:

@example
client.invokeOperation(ObjectName.getInstance("java.lang:type=Memory"),
   "gc");
@end example

See the @code{JmxClient} javadocs for more information

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Using With Spring, Exposing via HTTP, Using Client, Using
@section Using With the Spring Framework

@cindex Spring framework
@cindex using with Spring
@cindex JmxBean
@cindex PublishAllBeanWrapper
SimpleJMX has an optional dependency on the Spring Framework jar(s).  This means that if you have the Spring framework
included in your project, you can make use of the @code{BeanPublisher} class which will automagically register the beans
from your spring XML configuration files to the @code{JmxServer} class.  The @code{BeanPublisher} class will register
classes that have the @code{@@JmxResource} annotation, that implement the @code{JmxSelfNaming} interface, that are of
type that are of type @code{JmxBean}, and are of type @code{PublishAllBeanWrapper}.

Here's a sample bean configuration:

@example
<!-- registers @@JmxResource and JmxSelfNaming classes with the server -->
<bean id="beanPublisher" class="com.j256.simplejmx.spring.BeanPublisher">
   <property name="jmxServer" ref="jmxServer" />
</bean>

<!-- our JMX server which publishes our JMX beans -->
<bean id="jmxServer" class="com.j256.simplejmx.server.JmxServer"
     init-method="start" destroy-method="stop">
   <property name="registryPort" value="8000" />
</bean>
@end example

Notice that the @code{JmxServer} is configured with an @code{init-method} and @code{destroy-method} which cause the JMX
server to be started and stopped when the application context is loaded and closed.

You can also wire a JMX bean for another bean that is not using the @code{@@JmxResource} annotation and does not implement
the @code{JmxSelfNaming} interface with the help of the @code{JmxBean} class:

@example
<!-- some random bean defined in your spring files -->
<bean id="someBean" class="your.domain.SomeBean">
   ...
</bean>

<!-- publish information about that bean via JMX -->
<bean id="jmxServerJmx" class="com.j256.simplejmx.spring.JmxBean">
   <!-- helps build the ObjectName -->
   <property name="jmxResourceInfo">
      <bean class="com.j256.simplejmx.common.JmxResourceInfo">
         <property name="jmxDomainName" value="your.domain" />
         <property name="jmxBeanName" value="SomeBean" />
      </bean>
   </property>
   <!-- defines the fields that are exposed for JMX -->
   <property name="attributeFieldInfos">
      <array>
         <bean class="com.j256.simplejmx.common.JmxAttributeFieldInfo">
            <property name="name" value="someCounter" />
         </bean>
      </array>
   </property>
   <!-- defines the get/is/set methods exposed -->
   <property name="attributeMethodInfos">
      <array>
         <bean class="com.j256.simplejmx.common.JmxAttributeMethodInfo">
            <property name="methodName" value="getSomeValue" />
         </bean>
      </array>
   </property>
   <!-- defines the operations (i.e. non get/is/set) methods exposed -->
   <property name="operationInfos">
      <array>
         <bean class="com.j256.simplejmx.common.JmxOperationInfo">
            <property name="methodName" value="someMethod" />
         </bean>
      </array>
   </property>
   <property name="target" ref="jmxServer" />
</bean>
@end example

Take a look at the spring example program to see working code that uses this class.  @xref{spring framework example}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Exposing via HTTP, Using JVM JMX Server, Using With Spring, Using
@section Exposing Beans Over HTTP

@cindex web server
@cindex HTTP
@cindex JMX via web
@cindex publish via http
SimpleJMX contains a simple web-server implementation that uses Jetty so that you can access
JMX information from a web browser or other web client using the @code{JmxWebServer} class.  To use this class you
need to provide a Jetty version in your dependency list or classpath.

@example
// first start the jmx server
JmxServer jmxServer = new JmxServer(JMX_PORT);
jmxServer.start();
// register your beans as normal
jmxServer.register(counter);

// create a web server listening on a specific port
JmxWebServer jmxWebServer = new JmxWebServer(WEB_PORT);
jmxWebServer.start();
@end example

We recommend that you run the JMX server even if you are planning to use the web server most of the time.  You still
register beans via the @code{JmxServer} and any beans added to the platform @code{MBeanServer} will be visible via your
browser.

Take a look at the web-server example program to see working code that uses this class.  @xref{web server example}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Using JVM JMX Server, Examples, Exposing via HTTP, Using
@section Using the JVM Platform JMX Server

@cindex firewall
@cindex platform JMX server
@cindex JVM JMX server
@cindex NAT
@cindex authentication
@cindex SSL connections
@cindex port number
@cindex system properties
SimpleJMX allows you to start your own JMX server on a particular port.  One of the benefits of using the @code{JmxServer}
server instead of the JVM platform server is that you can specify both the registry and server ports.  This allows you to
better control what ports need to be exposed through a firewall. 

Sometimes, however, you will instead want to use the JMX @code{MBeanServer} that is built into JVM platform and that is
enabled by command line parameters to the @code{java} command.  To enable JMX on the command-line you need to use the
following system properties:

@itemize
@item @code{com.sun.management.jmxremote} -- turns on JMX
@item @code{com.sun.management.jmxremote.port} -- sets the registry port
@item @code{com.sun.management.jmxremote.authenticate} -- enables or disables authentication
@item @code{com.sun.management.jmxremote.ssl} -- enables or disables SSL connections
@end itemize

For example:

@example
java -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote \
	-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.port=9999 \
	-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.authenticate=false \
	-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.ssl=false \
	-jar yourApplication.jar
@end example

@emph{WARNING:} You should disable authentication and SSL only if necessary.  If you are trying to use
JMX over an insecure network then this @emph{will} create a security hole.

JMX is actually a two connection protocol.  Your JMX client connects first to the RMI registry port which returns what
IP/port to call to connect to the application for JMX.  Depending on the complexity of your network configuration, it may
be that the JVM attaches the JMX server to an IP that is not one that the client can contact.  In this case, you may need
to use the @code{java.rmi.server.hostname} property to define what name/IP the RMI registry should report back.

@example
java -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote \
	-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.port=9999 \
	...
	-Djava.rmi.server.hostname=10.1.2.3 \
	...
@end example

@cindex MBeanServer
@cindex platform MBeanServer
@cindex using platform MBeanServer
@cindex ManagementFactory
To run the @code{JmxServer} but still use the @code{MBeanServer} that was started by the JVM platform, you use the
@code{boolean} constructor and pass @code{true} to it:

@example
// define a server that makes use of the platform MBeanServer 
JmxServer jmxServer = new JmxServer(true);
@end example

There is also a @code{jmxServer.setUsePlatformMBeanServer(true)} method to use with Spring injection.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Examples, License, Using JVM JMX Server, Top
@chapter Example Code

@cindex examples of code
@cindex code examples
Here is some example code to help you get going with SimpleJMX.  I often find that code is the best documentation of how
to get something working.  Please feel free to suggest additional example packages for inclusion here.  Source code submissions
are welcome as long as you don't get piqued if we don't chose your's.

@table @asis

@cindex simple example
@item Simple, basic

This is a simple application which publishes a single object.  See the
@uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/docs/example-simple, source code on github}.

@anchor{random object example}
@item Random object example

This is an example showing how to programmatically expose using JMX a random object without SimpleJMX annotations:
See the @uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/docs/example-random, source code on github}.

@anchor{spring framework example}
@item Spring Framework example

This is an example showing how you can use SimpleJMX with the Spring Framework.
See the @uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/docs/example-spring, source code on github}.  The
@uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/docs/example-spring-config, example spring
config file} is also available.

@cindex web server example
@anchor{web server example}
@item Jmx Web Server example

This is an example showing how you can use SimpleJMX to expose JMX beans over HTTP to web browsers.
See the @uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/docs/example-web, source code on github}.

@cindex publish all example
@anchor{publish all example}
@item Publish all example

This is an example that shows how you can use the @code{PublishAllBeanWrapper} to publish information about a random
object.  See the @uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/docs/example-publish-all, source code on github}.

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node License, Index of Concepts, Examples, Top
@chapter Open Source License

@cindex license
@cindex open source license
This document is part of the SimpleJMX project.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any purpose with or without fee is hereby
granted, provided that this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING
ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

The author may be contacted via @uref{http://256.com/sources/simplejmx/}

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node Index of Concepts,, License, Top
@unnumbered Index of Concepts

@printindex cp

@ifhtml
@contents
@end ifhtml

@bye
